[MUSIC]
When you're doing production design
there is this idea
that you need to be able to
build prototypes.
Because one of the, in a way,
important elements of that
discipline is being able to test the
things you do with people.
So, you know, you want to make a website,
you make the prototype, a
mockup of the website, you try it with
people, you see how they react.
And the same thing with physical devices,
but physicals means you need to
learn about electronics.
So we had to create different classes
that would basically make
electronics approachable to people that
don't have a background in electronics.
They next to zero software
development background.
So, what we did when I started
teaching is that I
started to experiment with the tools that
were available on the market.
[COUGH] And then I realized
there were a number
of shortcomings, like, every, designers
mostly like to use Macs.
Mac haven't had serial ports for ages.
They all have USB ports.
And still, you know, there are
professionals that have
their development tools that
are released now in 2013
they still only have serial ports, which,
it's really weird, because I
haven't seen a serial port on,
on a laptop for a long time.
And on desktops, sometimes don't
even have them anymore.
So we had to make something that would run
on a Mac, that would be easier to
use, that would be cheaper than what was
available on the market back then
which, you know.
And also we had this programming language
we sort of inherited from the MIT called
Processing, which was used to teach about
programming to artists and designers.
So we thought, well, you know,
why don't we try to make
that run on a microcontroller, so that
was based on Java.
Microcontrollers tend to, they don't
like Java very, very much.
They prefer languages, it's easier to work
with languages like C++ or C.
So we did some experiments,
then one student
of mine did a thesis on the [UNKNOWN].
So different projects sort of
followed and then we
ended up with the first
version of Arduino which,
based on the work that this student
Hernando Barragan
did on a project called Wiring, we
re-implemented it from scratch.
So we reused the APIs but we rewrote the
whole thing to be completely open source,
because we also wanted
something that would be
easy for people to reproduce,
to build upon.
So we wanted to remove the barriers, and
one of the things that we did is also
that, since at the time we haven't got, in
a way, a clue how we were
going to manufacture,
we didn't want to set up
like a classic manufacturing
company, or go to a
venture capitalist or something
because obviously there was,
back then nobody would have
even talked to us.
So we thought, you know, let's release the
hardware as open source so that
people can build it if they want to.
And they started to make, we just started
to make the PCBs of the sort of two-hole
version and, and so we, we would just
give them away to people as a gift.
So, just take this PCB, assemble one.
And some people started to assemble it.
So they went on the website,
they got the instructions,
they started to write.
That's to, to download the code,
to solder the, the boards.
And so we got some feedback and we started
to build up a little bit of an audience.
And, and, you know, that's, that's
how we started.
>> So, so, talk a little bit about the
the transition from people coming in to
the four-week class and
spending the first three days soldering
to the, to the sort of scaled-up
manufacture.
>> [LAUGH].
>> I mean, what happened?
How, how did you get pushed?
What triggered the
>> Well, we started to do
introductory workshops
for people outside of the school.
I originally started this project with a
friend of mine called Avit Quartinas
who teaches in Sweden, and the two of us
both had similar issues
with our students. We wanted to, you know,
there was a bunch of input that
we gathered and so we started to make the
first of the two-hole versions.
Then we met an engineer that was
living and working
in Ivrea that had experience in
manufacturing stuff.
He was actually helping me a lot when,
whenever the school wanted to manufacture
something with electronics.
I would ask this, Gianluca Martino
is his name,
I would ask Gianluca to help me do that.
So I said, well, you know, can we
manufacture 200 of these pre-made?
That we can just, you know,
sell to people?
And then me and David managed
to convince both Ivrea
and the school in Marma to
buy 50 each.
So 100 were sold and then we said, you know,
let's see if we can sell the other 100.
You know, who cares?
>> What, on a website or something?
>> Well, we started to actually sell them
like this, like in this, by hand,
by sort of really like saying okay,
I'm going to run a workshop
in this place, I need 20 boards
and we would just sell them to
people at the moment.
The platform was unknown, it was not
really proven, we were
at the beginning.
Luckily we did some public
demonstrations of how
you can do with this,
and people understood.
So some people in different communities
started to put out the
word that there was this Arduino thing
that was very promising.
So we got people. We organized a
workshop at the end of 2005 in London,
which was the first workshop where really
we put an ad and people paid and came.
I think there were a number of events
that lined up
that created, kind of fueled, this kind
of viral aspect.
So, obviously, first of all, we had a
friend that was teaching
these kind of topics in the U.S.
at NYU in a school called ITP.
And he had a much bigger
number of students.
He had something like 120 students.
And so, we met him one summer
in Italy, doing
a work, a project together and we
showed him Arduino,
he started to play with it, he thought,
okay, I like this. We can go
somewhere with this thing.
So he brought back a few prototypes, we
shipped him a few more boards.
And he started to use it with some of the
second-year students.
And then at some point in 2006, I think, the
platform started to work properly.
You could do good projects with it.
And so the first-year students they saw
what the second-year students
were doing and they said well you know we
want that Arduino ourselves.
So I would say that generated, that kind of
gave us 120 power users.
People who make beautiful projects
and designers
of these features, that tend to take
their projects and document
them very nicely
put them online because
it's their portfolio.
Well with Arduino the idea is that you
download a file, you plug
the board, okay back in the days you had
to install a few drivers.
But then, you know, in the space of a hour
or something you were working.
>> You got a blinking LED.
>> Yeah, the blinking LED was
the hello world.
The blinking LED is the hello world
of physical computing.
So yeah, I think this viral aspect also
coupled with the fact that
we asked SparkFun Electronics,
their online store
was again beginning to become
very successful.
So we asked Nathan to carry Arduino,
you know, and he sort of graciously
accepted to do that.
And so we, he kind of fueled our
growth in the U.S. Then
me and David Cuartielles spent
many, a number of years
traveling around the world, but mostly in
Europe at the beginning, doing workshops.
And we, you know, sometimes for free.
You know, just going somewhere and, you
know, sleeping in a
>> Couch
>> Whatever we could sleep.
Yeah, and then run workshops and that
obviously kind of fueled
that kind of aspect.
But then it was a lot of people making
projects, documenting them,
putting them online and then sharing
information about how they
built the product.
>> Where do you think this thing is
going to go and what, what, what
are your, some of your dreams of how it
could sort of change our world
>> [LAUGH]
>> in powerful ways?.
>> Well, in a way I think there's a
wider, wider discussion
about empowering people to be
creative with technology.
So because obviously nowadays
the world that's around us
is made a lot of digital technology.
And there is an, there is a trend that I'm
not particularly happy with
where people just buy devices and they
just use the devices, but they are not
aware of how you program, how you design,
you build things with the device.
So, you know, for me the iPad sometimes is
the TV set of the 21st Century, you know.
Obviously at home I have an iPad
and I use it for a TV, because
you're browsing the Web, you're
watching TV, you're maybe
listening to music.
Yeah, you can create with the iPad with
certain applications, but it's
not something's that kind of makes you
want to program the device to do more.
And, and I think it's important,
especially for kids to, for them to
understand that the world we live in,
now especially if you look at
this room, this is a building that was
made, designed by human beings, built
by human beings, every single bit was
designed and built by a human being.
So clearly, if you know how to design and
build things, you can affect the world
that's around you.
If you are not able to participate in this,
in the world of creation
in the digital space, you're left out.
Somebody else is going to
design your world.
At some point, you know, if there's no
innovation, if there is no sort
of renovation, in a way, inside the
marketplace, then one company
decides that that's the way you do a
certain thing, and that becomes
the only answer to a certain question and
nobody starts to debate that.
Or, you know in a way I think it's
important to be masters of the technology.
[SOUND]
[MUSIC]